README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gismo141/homebridge-server.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gismo141/homebridge-server)

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/homebridge-server.png?downloads=true&downloadRank=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/homebridge-server/)
[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm-dl/homebridge-server.png?&months=6&height=3)](https://nodei.co/npm/homebridge-server/)

# Homebridge Server - a plugin to configure your homebridge-devices via your Browser

The purpose of this plugin is to change your homebridge configuration via the webbrowser.
Therefore the JSON-things will be handled by the plugin and you - as a user - can easily add your devices to the bridge.

![Overview](overview.png)

See my blog post [Configure your HomeBridge with HomeBridge-Server](https://gismo141.github.io/configure-your-homebridge-2/) on how I implemented this plugin.

## What can you do with this plugin?

1. Change the broadcasted name of your Homebridge
2. Change the MAC-address used to identify your Homebridge
3. Change the PIN to verify your Homebridge
4. Add or Remove platforms
5. Add or Remove accessories
6. Change the names of your services
7. Backup your configuration
8. Show the Log-file of Homebridge
9. Reboot your system

## How to setup?

Fast way:

```Bash
[sudo] npm install homebridge-server@latest -g
```

Add this snippet to your `config.json`:

```JSON
{
    "platform": "Server",
    "port": 8765,
    "name": "Homebridge Server",
    "log" : "<PATH_TO_YOUR_LOG_FILE>"
}
```

and launch or restart your homebridge, e.g.:

```Bash
homebridge -D -U <HOMEBRIDGE_CONFIG_FOLDER>
```

See the [Wiki](https://github.com/gismo141/homebridge-server/wiki) on how to configure, install and use the plugin for more complex scenarios.

## Log-File

You can directly see what's happening on your Homebridge - just hit the button in the menubar and the Log is shown on the webpage!

![Log File](log_file.png)

## Backup of your Configuration

If you want to backup your configuration, just hit the Backup-button in the menubar of the webpage.
The configuration will be saved at the same location of your original configuration but with an `.bak` extension.
So whenever you crash your config you should have a valid backup!

![Backup](backup.png)

## Rebooting your System

To make the changes in your configuration permanent, you need to restart the Homebridge-service.
If you want, you can restart your Homebridge-running system directly via the webpages `Reboot`-button.
Just hit the button in the menubar and wait, until your system has rebooted and your services are back online.

**Disclaimer**

The reboot is immediate!
If your Homebridge is not running as a service but as a standalone program you launch manually, the Homebridge won't restart automatically.
This only works, if Homebridge is set up as a service on boot!

Please make sure to restart Homebridge manually if you haven't set it up as a service.

If you want to start homebridge as a service, see [Running Homebridge on Bootup](https://github.com/nfarina/homebridge/wiki/Running-HomeBridge-on-a-Raspberry-Pi#running-homebridge-on-bootup).

## How could you contribute?

1. [Fork this project][fork] to your account.
2. [Create a new branch][branch] for the improvements, you intend to make.
3. **Make the changements in your fork.**
4. [Send a pull-request][pr] from your fork’s branch to my `master` branch.
 
You can always use the web-interface to make the changes you want. It helps you automizing the workflow from above.

[fork]: http://help.github.com/forking/
[branch]: https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository
[pr]: http://help.github.com/pull-requests/

Commit message:

Added ability to manage plugins (fixes #12), added additional output for the startup call (config.json-path not given, fixes #9) and adapted correct log-output

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gismo141/homebridge-server.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gismo141/homebridge-server)

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/homebridge-server.png?downloads=true&downloadRank=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/homebridge-server/)
[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm-dl/homebridge-server.png?&months=6&height=3)](https://nodei.co/npm/homebridge-server/)

# Homebridge Server - a plugin to configure your Homebridge-devices in your Browser

The purpose of this plugin is to change your homebridge configuration via the webbrowser.
The plugin handles the JSON-part and you - as a user - can add your devices to the bridge.

![Overview](overview.png)

See my blog post [Configure your Homebridge with Homebridge-Server](https://gismo141.github.io/configure-your-homebridge-2/) on how I implemented this plugin.

## What can you do with this plugin?

1. Change the broadcasted name of your Homebridge
2. Change the MAC-address used to identify your Homebridge
3. Change the PIN to verify your Homebridge
4. Add or Remove platforms
5. Add or Remove accessories
6. Change the names of your services
7. Backup your configuration
8. Show the Log-file of Homebridge
9. Reboot your system

## How to setup?

Fast way:

```Bash
[sudo] npm install homebridge-server@latest -g
```

Add this snippet to your `config.json`:

```JSON
{
    "platform": "Server",
    "port": 8765,
    "name": "Homebridge Server",
    "log" : "<PATH_TO_YOUR_LOG_FILE>"
}
```

and launch or restart your homebridge, e.g.:

```Bash
homebridge -D -U <HOMEBRIDGE_CONFIG_FOLDER>
```

See the [Wiki](https://github.com/gismo141/homebridge-server/wiki) on how to configure, install and use the plugin for more complex scenarios.

## Backup of your Configuration

If you want to backup your configuration, hit the Backup-button in the menubar of the webpage.
The plugin saves the configuration at the same location of your original configuration but appends an `.bak`-extension.
Whenever you crash your config you should have a valid backup!

![Backup](backup.png)

## Log-File

You can directly see what's happening on your Homebridge - hit the button in the menubar and the webserver shows you the log in your browser!

![Log File](log_file.png)

## Manage your Homebridge-plugins

From this version you are now able to browser, remove, and install all Homebridge-plugins that are available on [https://npmjs.com](https://npmjs.com)!
Thanks to the great API of [https://npms.io](https://npms.io) you can filter the plugins by name and description.

![Plugins](plugins.png)

**At the moment you can receive a 250 results. I'll fix it as soon as I can! ;)**

## Rebooting your System

To make the changes in your configuration permanent, you need to restart the Homebridge-service.
If you want, you can restart your Homebridge-running system directly via the webpages `Reboot`-button.
Hit the button in the menubar and wait, until your system has rebooted and your services are back online.

**Disclaimer**

The reboot is immediate!
If your Homebridge is not running as a service but as a standalone program you launch manually, the Homebridge won't restart automatically.
You must setup Homebridge as a service on boot - This is necessary for the plugin to work!

Please make sure to restart Homebridge manually if you haven't set it up as a service.

If you want to start homebridge as a service, see [Running Homebridge on Bootup](https://github.com/nfarina/homebridge/wiki/Running-Homebridge-on-a-Raspberry-Pi#running-homebridge-on-bootup).

## How could you contribute?

1. [Fork this project][fork] to your account.
2. [Create a new branch][branch] for the improvements, you intend to make.
3. **Make the changements in your fork.**
4. [Send a pull-request][pr] from your fork’s branch to my `master` branch.

You can always use the web-interface to make the changes you want. It helps you automizing the workflow from above.

[fork]: http://help.github.com/forking/
[branch]: https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository
[pr]: http://help.github.com/pull-requests/
